---
title: Report an error
description: Main API functionality responsible for handling crash reports from applications.
category: Errors
method: post
url: /errors
full_url: /api/v1/errors
layout: api
order: 1
---

Main API functionality responsible for handling crash reports from applications.

## Request

Field | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
project`*` | string(255) | Project key, generated by server.
version`*` | string(255) | Version number, reecommended to use [major.minor.patch](http://semver.org/) notation.
system`*` | string(255) | Operating system used by the user.
language`*` | string(255) | Language of application, not OS (eq. pl_PL - [language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)_[REGION](https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1)).
hash`*` | string(64) | Hash uniquely identifying an exception (recommended hash from full name of the exception class, file name and method where the error occured).
name`*` | string(255) | Exception title (shown in the errors list).
environment`*` | string(255) | Environment name (eq. Development, Testing, Production).
stack_trace`*` | text | Full stack trace dump.
message | text | Message filled by the user or by programmer (log with user's actions). Empty string or string containing only whitespaces will be treated as if there was no message.
client_id`*` | string(64) | Client unique id (explicitly identifies the device or user).

The report will also contain client IP taken from the request.

## Response

### 200 OK

Report succesfully stored.

### 400 Bad Request

Ensure that request is made via https protocole, if problem still exists please check the `message` field and/or application logs.

### 405 Method Not Allowed

Means that you use `GET`, `PUT`, `PATCH` or `DELETE` method instead of the proper `POST` request method.

### 422 Unprocessable Entity

Given input data failed to pass validation.

Example response:

```json
{
    "hash": [
        "The hash may only contain letters and numbers.",
        "The hash may not be greater than 64 characters."
    ],
    "client_id": [
        "The client id may only contain letters and numbers."
    ]
}
```